documentation/src/main/asciidoc/public/reference/_compatibility.adoc, before:

[[compatibility]]
= [[getting-started-compatibility]] Compatibility

[[compatibility-dependencies]]
== Dependencies

.Compatible versions of dependencies
[cols="h,^1,1", stripes=none]
|===============
| h|Version h|Note
|Java Runtime
|8, 11 or 17
|
|Hibernate ORM (for the <<mapper-orm,Hibernate ORM mapper>>
|{hibernateVersion}
|
|Jakarta Persistence (for the <<mapper-orm,Hibernate ORM mapper>>
|{jakartaPersistenceVersion}
|
|Apache Lucene (for the <<backend-lucene,Lucene backend>>)
|{luceneVersion}
|
|Elasticsearch server (for the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>)
|{elasticsearchCompatibleVersions}
|Most of older minor versions (e.g. {elasticsearchOtherPotentiallyCompatibleVersions}) are not given priority for bugfixes and new features.
|OpenSearch server (for the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>)
|{openSearchCompatibleVersions}
|Other minor versions may work
but are not given priority for bugfixes and new features.
|===============

[TIP]
====
Find more information for all versions of Hibernate Search on our
https://hibernate.org/search/releases/#compatibility-matrix[compatibility matrix].

The https://hibernate.org/community/compatibility-policy/[compatibility policy] may also be of interest.
====

[TIP]
====
If you get Hibernate Search from Maven, it is recommended to import Hibernate Search BOM
as part of your dependency management to keep all its artifact versions aligned:
[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <!--
            Import Hibernate Search BOM
            to get all of its artifact versions aligned:
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate.search</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-search-bom</artifactId>
            <version>{hibernateSearchVersion}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <!-- Any other dependency management entries -->
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----
====

[NOTE]
.Elasticsearch 7.11+ licensing
====
While Elasticsearch up to 7.10 was distributed under the Apache License 2.0,
be aware that Elasticsearch 7.11 and later are distributed under the Elastic License and the SSPL,
which are https://opensource.org/node/1099[not considered open-source by the Open Source Initiative].

Only the low-level Java REST client, which Hibernate Search depends on, remains open-source.
====

[NOTE]
.OpenSearch
====
While it historically targeted link:{elasticsearchUrl}[Elastic's Elasticsearch distribution],
Hibernate Search is also compatible with link:{openSearchUrl}[OpenSearch] and regularly tested against it;
see <<backend-elasticsearch-compatibility>> for more information.

Every section of this documentation referring to Elasticsearch
is also relevant for the OpenSearch distribution.
====

[[compatibility-framework]]
== [[gettingstarted-framework]] Framework support

[[compatibility-framework-quarkus]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-quarkus]] [[_quarkus]] Quarkus

link:{quarkusUrl}[Quarkus] has an official extension for <<mapper-orm,Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>
using the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>,
which is a tight integration with additional features, different dependencies, and different configuration properties.

As your first step to using Hibernate Search within Quarkus,
we recommend you follow Quarkus's https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch[Hibernate Search Guide]:
it is a great hands-on introduction to Hibernate Search,
_and_ it covers the specifics of Quarkus.

[[compatibility-framework-wildfly]]
=== WildFly

link:{wildflyUrl}[WildFly] includes modules for <<mapper-orm,Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>
using either the <<backend-lucene,Lucene backend>> or the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>.

To start using Hibernate Search within WildFly,
see the https://docs.wildfly.org/30/Developer_Guide.html#using-hibernate-search[Hibernate Search section in the WildFly Developer Guide]:
it covers all the specifics of WildFly.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot]] [[_spring_boot]] Spring Boot

Hibernate Search can easily be integrated into a link:{springBootUrl}[Spring Boot] application.
Just read about Spring Boot's specifics below, then follow the xref:../getting-started/orm/index.adoc#mapper-orm-getting-started[getting started guide].

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-configuration-properties]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-configuration-properties]] [[_configuration_properties]] Configuration properties

`application.properties`/`application.yaml` are Spring Boot configuration files,
not JPA or Hibernate Search configuration files.
Adding Hibernate Search properties starting with `hibernate.search.` directly in that file will not work.

When <<mapper-orm,integrating Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>::
Prefix your Hibernate Search properties with
https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.5.1/reference/html/application-properties.html#application-properties.data.spring.jpa.properties[`spring.jpa.properties.`],
so that Spring Boot passes along the properties to Hibernate ORM, which will pass them along to Hibernate Search.
+
For example:
+
[source]
----
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.search.backend.hosts = elasticsearch.mycompany.com
----
When using the <<mapper-pojo-standalone,Standalone POJO mapper>>::
You can pass properties programmatically to `SearchMappingBuilder#property`.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-dependency-versions]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-dependency-versions]] [[_dependency_versions]] Dependency versions

Spring Boot automatically sets the version of dependencies without your knowledge.
While this is ordinarily a good thing, from time to time Spring Boot dependencies will be a little out of date.
Thus, it is recommended to override Spring Boot's defaults at least for some key dependencies.

With Maven, there are a few ways to override these versions depending on how Spring is added to the application.
If your application's POM file is using `spring-boot-starter-parent` as its parent POM
then simply adding version properties to your POM's `<properties>` should help:

[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<properties>
    <hibernate.version>{hibernateVersion}</hibernate.version>
    <elasticsearch-client.version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</elasticsearch-client.version>
    <!-- ... plus any other properties of yours ... -->
</properties>
----

[TIP]
====
If, after setting the properties above,
you still are getting the same version of the libraries,
check if property names in the Spring Boot's BOM have changed, and if so use the new property name.
====

Alternatively, if either the `spring-boot-dependencies` or the `spring-boot-starter-parent` is imported into the dependency management (`<dependencyManagement>`)
then overriding the versions can be done either by importing a BOM listing the dependencies we want to override,
or by explicitly listing a dependency with its version that we want to be used:

.Override dependencies either with another BOM or explicitly
[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <!--
            Overriding Hibernate ORM version by importing the BOM.
            Alternatively, can be done by adding specific dependencies
            as shown below for Elasticsearch dependencies.
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate.orm</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-platform</artifactId>
            <version>${version.org.hibernate.orm}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-dependencies</artifactId>
            <version>{testSpringBootVersion}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <!--
            Since there is no BOM for the Elasticsearch REST client,
            these dependencies have to be listed explicitly:
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.elasticsearch.client</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticsearch-rest-client</artifactId>
            <version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.elasticsearch.client</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticsearch-rest-client-sniffer</artifactId>
            <version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</version>
        </dependency>
        <!-- Other dependency management entries -->
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----

For other build tools refer to their documentation for details.

[TIP]
====
Maven's `dependency` plugin (or your build tool corresponding alternative)
can be used to verify that the version override was correctly applied, e.g.:
[source, bash, subs="+attributes"]
----
# Show the dependency tree filtering for Hibernate and Elasticsearch dependencies to reduce the output:
mvn dependency:tree "-Dincludes=org.hibernate.*,org.elasticsearch.*"
----
====

[TIP]
====
If, after setting the properties above,
you still have problems (e.g. `NoClassDefFoundError`) with some of Hibernate Search's dependencies,
look for the version of that dependency in
https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.springframework.boot/spring-boot-dependencies/{testSpringBootVersion}/pom[Spring Boot's POM]
and https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.hibernate.search/hibernate-search-parent/{hibernateSearchVersion}/pom[Hibernate Search's POM]:
there will probably be a mismatch,
and generally overriding Spring Boot's version to match Hibernate Search's version will work fine.
====

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-application-hanging]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-application-hanging]] [[_application_hanging_on_startup]] Application hanging on startup

Spring Boot 2.3.x and above is affected by a bug that causes the application to hang on startup
when using Hibernate Search, particularly when using custom components (custom bridges, analysis configurers, ...).

The problem, which is not limited to just Hibernate Search,
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/issues/25111[has been reported],
but hasn't been fixed yet in Spring Boot 2.5.1.

As a workaround, you can set the property `spring.data.jpa.repositories.bootstrap-mode` to `deferred` or,
if that doesn't work, `default`.
Interestingly, using `@EnableJpaRepositories(bootstrapMode = BootstrapMode.DEFERRED)` has been reported to work
even in situations where setting `spring.data.jpa.repositories.bootstrap-mode` to `deferred` didn't work.

Alternatively, if you do not need dependency injection in your custom components,
you can refer to those components with the prefix `constructor:`
so that Hibernate Search doesn't even try to use Spring to retrieve the components,
and thus avoids the deadlock in Spring.
See <<configuration-bean-reference-parsing,this section>> for more information.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-elasticsearch-auto-configuration]]
==== Spring Boot's Elasticsearch client and auto-configuration

As you may know, Spring Boot includes "auto-configuration" that triggers as soon as a dependency is detected in the classpath.

This may lead to problems in some cases when dependencies are used by the application, but not through Spring Boot.

In particular, Hibernate Search transitively brings in a dependency to Elasticsearch's low-level REST Client.
Spring Boot, through link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{testSpringBootVersion}/api/org/springframework/boot/autoconfigure/elasticsearch/ElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration.html[`ElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration`],
will automatically set up an Elasticsearch REST client targeting (by default) `http://localhost:9200`
as soon as it detects that dependency to the Elasticsearch REST Client JAR.

If your Elasticsearch cluster is not reachable at `http://localhost:9200`,
this might lead to errors on startup.

To get rid of these errors, either
link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{testSpringBootVersion}/reference/html/features.html#features.nosql.elasticsearch.connecting-using-rest[configure Spring's Elasticsearch client manually],
or https://www.baeldung.com/spring-data-disable-auto-config[disable this specific auto-configuration].

[NOTE]
====
Spring Boot's Elasticsearch client is completely separate from Hibernate Search:
the configuration of one won't affect the other.
====

[[compatibility-framework-other]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-other]] Other

If your framework of choice is not mentioned in the previous sections, don't worry:
Hibernate Search works just fine with plenty of other frameworks.

Just follow the xref:../getting-started/orm/index.adoc#mapper-orm-getting-started[getting started guide] to try it out.

Commit message:

HSEARCH-5022 Ensure the version of WildFly mentioned in documentation stays up to date

documentation/src/main/asciidoc/public/reference/_compatibility.adoc, after:

[[compatibility]]
= [[getting-started-compatibility]] Compatibility

[[compatibility-dependencies]]
== Dependencies

.Compatible versions of dependencies
[cols="h,^1,1", stripes=none]
|===============
| h|Version h|Note
|Java Runtime
|8, 11 or 17
|
|Hibernate ORM (for the <<mapper-orm,Hibernate ORM mapper>>
|{hibernateVersion}
|
|Jakarta Persistence (for the <<mapper-orm,Hibernate ORM mapper>>
|{jakartaPersistenceVersion}
|
|Apache Lucene (for the <<backend-lucene,Lucene backend>>)
|{luceneVersion}
|
|Elasticsearch server (for the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>)
|{elasticsearchCompatibleVersions}
|Most of older minor versions (e.g. {elasticsearchOtherPotentiallyCompatibleVersions}) are not given priority for bugfixes and new features.
|OpenSearch server (for the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>)
|{openSearchCompatibleVersions}
|Other minor versions may work
but are not given priority for bugfixes and new features.
|===============

[TIP]
====
Find more information for all versions of Hibernate Search on our
https://hibernate.org/search/releases/#compatibility-matrix[compatibility matrix].

The https://hibernate.org/community/compatibility-policy/[compatibility policy] may also be of interest.
====

[TIP]
====
If you get Hibernate Search from Maven, it is recommended to import Hibernate Search BOM
as part of your dependency management to keep all its artifact versions aligned:
[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <!--
            Import Hibernate Search BOM
            to get all of its artifact versions aligned:
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate.search</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-search-bom</artifactId>
            <version>{hibernateSearchVersion}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <!-- Any other dependency management entries -->
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----
====

[NOTE]
.Elasticsearch 7.11+ licensing
====
While Elasticsearch up to 7.10 was distributed under the Apache License 2.0,
be aware that Elasticsearch 7.11 and later are distributed under the Elastic License and the SSPL,
which are https://opensource.org/node/1099[not considered open-source by the Open Source Initiative].

Only the low-level Java REST client, which Hibernate Search depends on, remains open-source.
====

[NOTE]
.OpenSearch
====
While it historically targeted link:{elasticsearchUrl}[Elastic's Elasticsearch distribution],
Hibernate Search is also compatible with link:{openSearchUrl}[OpenSearch] and regularly tested against it;
see <<backend-elasticsearch-compatibility>> for more information.

Every section of this documentation referring to Elasticsearch
is also relevant for the OpenSearch distribution.
====

[[compatibility-framework]]
== [[gettingstarted-framework]] Framework support

[[compatibility-framework-quarkus]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-quarkus]] [[_quarkus]] Quarkus

link:{quarkusUrl}[Quarkus] has an official extension for <<mapper-orm,Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>
using the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>,
which is a tight integration with additional features, different dependencies, and different configuration properties.

As your first step to using Hibernate Search within Quarkus,
we recommend you follow Quarkus's https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch[Hibernate Search Guide]:
it is a great hands-on introduction to Hibernate Search,
_and_ it covers the specifics of Quarkus.

[[compatibility-framework-wildfly]]
=== WildFly

link:{wildflyUrl}[WildFly] includes modules for <<mapper-orm,Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>
using either the <<backend-lucene,Lucene backend>> or the <<backend-elasticsearch,Elasticsearch backend>>.

To start using Hibernate Search within WildFly,
see the link:{wildflyDeveloperGuideUrl}#using-hibernate-search[Hibernate Search section in the WildFly Developer Guide]:
it covers all the specifics of WildFly.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot]] [[_spring_boot]] Spring Boot

Hibernate Search can easily be integrated into a link:{springBootUrl}[Spring Boot] application.
Just read about Spring Boot's specifics below, then follow the xref:../getting-started/orm/index.adoc#mapper-orm-getting-started[getting started guide].

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-configuration-properties]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-configuration-properties]] [[_configuration_properties]] Configuration properties

`application.properties`/`application.yaml` are Spring Boot configuration files,
not JPA or Hibernate Search configuration files.
Adding Hibernate Search properties starting with `hibernate.search.` directly in that file will not work.

When <<mapper-orm,integrating Hibernate Search with Hibernate ORM>>::
Prefix your Hibernate Search properties with
https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.5.1/reference/html/application-properties.html#application-properties.data.spring.jpa.properties[`spring.jpa.properties.`],
so that Spring Boot passes along the properties to Hibernate ORM, which will pass them along to Hibernate Search.
+
For example:
+
[source]
----
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.search.backend.hosts = elasticsearch.mycompany.com
----
When using the <<mapper-pojo-standalone,Standalone POJO mapper>>::
You can pass properties programmatically to `SearchMappingBuilder#property`.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-dependency-versions]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-dependency-versions]] [[_dependency_versions]] Dependency versions

Spring Boot automatically sets the version of dependencies without your knowledge.
While this is ordinarily a good thing, from time to time Spring Boot dependencies will be a little out of date.
Thus, it is recommended to override Spring Boot's defaults at least for some key dependencies.

With Maven, there are a few ways to override these versions depending on how Spring is added to the application.
If your application's POM file is using `spring-boot-starter-parent` as its parent POM
then simply adding version properties to your POM's `<properties>` should help:

[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<properties>
    <hibernate.version>{hibernateVersion}</hibernate.version>
    <elasticsearch-client.version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</elasticsearch-client.version>
    <!-- ... plus any other properties of yours ... -->
</properties>
----

[TIP]
====
If, after setting the properties above,
you still are getting the same version of the libraries,
check if property names in the Spring Boot's BOM have changed, and if so use the new property name.
====

Alternatively, if either the `spring-boot-dependencies` or the `spring-boot-starter-parent` is imported into the dependency management (`<dependencyManagement>`)
then overriding the versions can be done either by importing a BOM listing the dependencies we want to override,
or by explicitly listing a dependency with its version that we want to be used:

.Override dependencies either with another BOM or explicitly
[source, XML, subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <!--
            Overriding Hibernate ORM version by importing the BOM.
            Alternatively, can be done by adding specific dependencies
            as shown below for Elasticsearch dependencies.
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate.orm</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-platform</artifactId>
            <version>${version.org.hibernate.orm}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-dependencies</artifactId>
            <version>{testSpringBootVersion}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
        <!--
            Since there is no BOM for the Elasticsearch REST client,
            these dependencies have to be listed explicitly:
        -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.elasticsearch.client</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticsearch-rest-client</artifactId>
            <version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.elasticsearch.client</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticsearch-rest-client-sniffer</artifactId>
            <version>{elasticsearchClientVersions}</version>
        </dependency>
        <!-- Other dependency management entries -->
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----

For other build tools refer to their documentation for details.

[TIP]
====
Maven's `dependency` plugin (or your build tool corresponding alternative)
can be used to verify that the version override was correctly applied, e.g.:
[source, bash, subs="+attributes"]
----
# Show the dependency tree filtering for Hibernate and Elasticsearch dependencies to reduce the output:
mvn dependency:tree "-Dincludes=org.hibernate.*,org.elasticsearch.*"
----
====

[TIP]
====
If, after setting the properties above,
you still have problems (e.g. `NoClassDefFoundError`) with some of Hibernate Search's dependencies,
look for the version of that dependency in
https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.springframework.boot/spring-boot-dependencies/{testSpringBootVersion}/pom[Spring Boot's POM]
and https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.hibernate.search/hibernate-search-parent/{hibernateSearchVersion}/pom[Hibernate Search's POM]:
there will probably be a mismatch,
and generally overriding Spring Boot's version to match Hibernate Search's version will work fine.
====

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-application-hanging]]
==== [[gettingstarted-framework-spring-boot-application-hanging]] [[_application_hanging_on_startup]] Application hanging on startup

Spring Boot 2.3.x and above is affected by a bug that causes the application to hang on startup
when using Hibernate Search, particularly when using custom components (custom bridges, analysis configurers, ...).

The problem, which is not limited to just Hibernate Search,
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/issues/25111[has been reported],
but hasn't been fixed yet in Spring Boot 2.5.1.

As a workaround, you can set the property `spring.data.jpa.repositories.bootstrap-mode` to `deferred` or,
if that doesn't work, `default`.
Interestingly, using `@EnableJpaRepositories(bootstrapMode = BootstrapMode.DEFERRED)` has been reported to work
even in situations where setting `spring.data.jpa.repositories.bootstrap-mode` to `deferred` didn't work.

Alternatively, if you do not need dependency injection in your custom components,
you can refer to those components with the prefix `constructor:`
so that Hibernate Search doesn't even try to use Spring to retrieve the components,
and thus avoids the deadlock in Spring.
See <<configuration-bean-reference-parsing,this section>> for more information.

[[compatibility-framework-spring-boot-elasticsearch-auto-configuration]]
==== Spring Boot's Elasticsearch client and auto-configuration

As you may know, Spring Boot includes "auto-configuration" that triggers as soon as a dependency is detected in the classpath.

This may lead to problems in some cases when dependencies are used by the application, but not through Spring Boot.

In particular, Hibernate Search transitively brings in a dependency to Elasticsearch's low-level REST Client.
Spring Boot, through link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{testSpringBootVersion}/api/org/springframework/boot/autoconfigure/elasticsearch/ElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration.html[`ElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration`],
will automatically set up an Elasticsearch REST client targeting (by default) `http://localhost:9200`
as soon as it detects that dependency to the Elasticsearch REST Client JAR.

If your Elasticsearch cluster is not reachable at `http://localhost:9200`,
this might lead to errors on startup.

To get rid of these errors, either
link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{testSpringBootVersion}/reference/html/features.html#features.nosql.elasticsearch.connecting-using-rest[configure Spring's Elasticsearch client manually],
or https://www.baeldung.com/spring-data-disable-auto-config[disable this specific auto-configuration].

[NOTE]
====
Spring Boot's Elasticsearch client is completely separate from Hibernate Search:
the configuration of one won't affect the other.
====

[[compatibility-framework-other]]
=== [[gettingstarted-framework-other]] Other

If your framework of choice is not mentioned in the previous sections, don't worry:
Hibernate Search works just fine with plenty of other frameworks.

Just follow the xref:../getting-started/orm/index.adoc#mapper-orm-getting-started[getting started guide] to try it out.
